# Workshop 02: Extreme Value Analysis

This workshop was assigned on GitHub, and can be accessed via [this link](https://classroom.github.com/a/3HVLnujt) (you can still use it to do the assignment, but future submissions will not be reviewed).

The solution is provided here in the following three sub-pages, and is a subset of what was included in the repository:
- Report: the Markdown report with 5 questions about the analysis
- Analysis: the Jupyter notebook where calculations were made (includes additional explanation)
- Feedback: the general feedback provided to all students (in addition to individual feedback in each group repository)

## Contents of `README.md`

This workshop will apply extreme value analysis to a real wave dataset from the North Sea. It is partly a review of MUDE material, but you will be asked to use the new material from your lecture on Tuesday to validate the threshold of the GPD distribution that you choose. Most of the code is written for you, but you will need to implement one or more of the validation methods.

Instructions (part 1) - the logistics:
- make sure you and your group members have a GitHub account
- using the link, create/join a group on GitHub (you can choose your own group name). _If you are reading this in a GitHub repo you have already done this step._
- make sure you send Robert and email informing him of your group members and GitHub usernames (include the info provided [here](https://tudelft-citg.github.io/HOS-prob-design-24/info/#assignments)!)


Instructions (Part 2) - the analysis:
- work through the notebook `Analysis.ipynb`, completing all tasks (answering questions with text in the notebook is optional).
- write answers to the questions in the file `Report.md`
- commit your files back to the repository

**Due date:** make your last commit before 4am on Tuesday, May 7, 2024.

You should be able to complete this assignment with any Anaconda package from MUDE, as the assignment only requires `numpy`, `matplotlib` `pandas` and `scipy`. Remember to activate it before starting your Jupyter session (e.g., `conda activate mude`).

## Grading

_Remember that all HOS students will be given a grade and feedback for this assignment. Depending on your B unit, the grade may or may not be included in the final score of your module. However, the scope of this assignment is *definitely* illustrative of what you would be expected to do in your other work._

This assignment will be graded as described on the Unit Website [here](https://tudelft-citg.github.io/HOS-prob-design-24/info/#grading). In addition, you will earn a higher grade if you implement more than 1 technique to validate the threshold.

Remember that your report is expected to be well-formatted, which means you take advantage of Markdown features and include tables and figures to explain your reasoning (this does _not_ mean include a _lot_ of figures, but rather, use figures to help explain your answer).

Note that while there are placeholders in the notebook for you to write answers/interpretation, these are for your own learning, and will not be graded directly.

Don't forget to **email Robert your group member info**, as described on [this page](https://tudelft-citg.github.io/HOS-prob-design-24/info/#groups).